Form 4A Landlord's notice proposing a new rent for assured tenancies in the private rented sector (05.26) ©Crown copyright 2026
Page 1
Form 4A
Landlord's notice proposing a new rent for
assured tenancies in the private rented sector
Housing Act 1988 section 13(2), as amended
This notice tells you that your landlord is proposing a new rent.
For use in the private rented sector in England only. For tenancies in the
social rented sector, use Form 4.
To propose a new rent for an assured agricultural occupancy in the social
rented sector use Form 5, and in the private rented sector use Form 5A.
This notice must be served on the tenant(s) at least two months
before the new rent can start.
Information for the tenant
This notice is given by your landlord to propose that you pay an increased
rent from the date in question 4.6. You should read this notice in full
immediately.
If you disagree with the proposed rent or have any questions about this
notice you should discuss it with your landlord and/or seek advice.
To challenge the proposed rent you must take action before the date
given in question 4.6.
There is information in Section 5 on how to take action if you disagree
with the proposed rent and where you can find advice.
Note to landlord: You
need to be able to evidence
that you served the notice
on your tenant. If your
written tenancy agreement
specifies agreed methods of
service, use one of those.
If it does not you can serve
it by handing it over to your
tenant in person, leaving
it at the tenant's address
or sending it by registered
post.

-- 1 of 9 --

Page 2
Form 4A Landlord's notice proposing a new rent for assured tenancies in the private rented sector (05.26)
1. The tenant(s) details Notes to landlord: You
can complete and sign this
1.1 Name(s) of tenant(s) notice electronically or by
hand.
Note 1.1: If it is a joint
tenancy, provide the names
of each of the tenants.
Postcode
1.2 Address of premises to which the tenancy relates
First line of address
Second line of address
Town or city
County (optional)
2. Details of the landlord
2.1 Name Note 2.1: It is important
that your tenant(s) can
contact someone about this
proposed rent increase.
2.2 Contact address
First line of address
Second line of address
Town or city
County (optional)
Postcode

-- 2 of 9 --

Page 3
Form 4A Landlord's notice proposing a new rent for assured tenancies in the private rented sector (05.26)
2.3 Contact details
Phone number
Email
Note to landlord 2.3:
Phone number and email are
recommended but optional.
If you provide an email
address, you agree that the
tenant and the tribunal may
use this address to serve
documents on you.
3. Details of the agent (if applicable)
3.1 Name
3.2 Contact address
First line of address
Second line of address
Town or city
County (optional)
Postcode
3.3 Contact details
Phone number
Email
Note to agent 3.3: Phone
number and email are
recommended but optional.
If you provide an email
address, you agree that the
tenant and the tribunal may
use this address to serve
documents on you.

-- 3 of 9 --

Page 4
Form 4A Landlord's notice proposing a new rent for assured tenancies in the private rented sector (05.26)
4. The rent
4.1 Current rent Frequency (per week, per month)
£
4.2 The tenancy started on
Day Month Year
4.3 The most recent rent increase (if applicable) was on
Day Month Year
4.4 Give the date of the first rent increase after 11 February 2003.
Day Month Year
4.5 The landlord is proposing a new rent of
Amount Frequency (per week, per month)
£
4.6 The new rent will start on
Day Month Year
4.7 Payments for certain bills or charges may be included in your rent.
The amount of the charges per tenancy period (if any) are:
Amount included and separately
identified (enter 'nil' if appropriate)
Charges Existing charge Proposed new
charge
Council tax £ £
Water charges £ £
Electricity, gas or
other fuel £ £
Communication
services £ £
Fixed service charges £ £
Notes to landlord
Note 4.1: Insert how often
the rent is paid, such as per
week, fortnight, four weeks,
month. This is the tenancy
period. This must be a
month or less.
Note 4.3: If there has not
been a rent increase since
the start of the tenancy,
leave blank.
Note 4.4: This question is
required to show whether
52 weeks or 53 weeks
need to pass since the last
increase. See Note A3.
If there has not been an
increase since 11 February
2003, leave blank.
Note 4.5: Insert how often
the rent should be paid,
such as per week, fortnight,
four weeks, month. This is
the tenancy period. This
must be a month or less.
Note 4.6: There are rules
about how soon this date
can be. See guidance in
Note A at the end of this
notice.
Note 4.7: It is helpful for
the tenants to understand
the breakdown of charges
included in the rent.
Landlords should only include
charges which are included in
the rent and which the tenant
does not pay directly to a
third party, or to the landlord
in addition to rent.
As this represents a part of
the full rent, the frequency
is the same as the tenancy
period mentioned in
question 4.5.
Communication services
can include access to a
landline telephone, the
internet, cable TV and
Satellite TV.
Follow the guidance in Note
B at the end of this notice.

-- 4 of 9 --

Page 5
Form 4A Landlord's notice proposing a new rent for assured tenancies in the private rented sector (05.26)
Signed
Landlord
Landlord's Agent
Print name
Note to landlord: If you
are joint landlords either
each sign this notice using
the additional signatures
box below, or agree for one
landlord to sign this notice
on behalf of you all.
Date
Day Month Year
Additional signatures for joint landlords
1. Signature, full name, address, and capacity of signatory (landlord).
2. Signature, full name, address, and capacity of signatory (landlord).
3. Signature, full name, address, and capacity of signatory (landlord).

-- 5 of 9 --

Page 6
Form 4A Landlord's notice proposing a new rent for assured tenancies in the private rented sector (05.26)
5. What you (the tenant) should do next
5.1 If you accept the proposed new rent, you should make arrangements to pay
it.
• If you pay by standing order, update the amount. Get in touch with your
bank if you are unsure how to do this.
• If you are claiming Universal Credit, you should tell the Department for
Work and Pensions once the rent increase starts. You can find advice at:
www.gov.uk/universal-credit/changes-of-circumstances
• If you are claiming Housing Benefit, you should tell your Housing Benefit
Office in your local authority. You can find advice at:
www.gov.uk/housing-benefit/report-a-change-of-circumstances
• To check affordability, you can search for Local Housing Allowance rates in
your local authority at: https://lha-direct.voa.gov.uk/
5.2 If you do not accept the new rent, there are steps you must take before the
starting date shown in question 4.6. The new rent will start from this date
unless you take one of the following actions:
• Agree with your landlord, in writing, to change or delay the rent increase.
• Refer the new rent to the tribunal if you believe the proposed rent is
higher than the market rate, or if you believe there is another problem with
this notice. For example, if the landlord did not give it to you at least two
months before the date of the proposed increase.
The application to the tribunal for a determination of a market rent can be
found at:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-for-a-market-rent-determination
The landlord will be able to reply to your application, and you will then have
the opportunity to respond to their reply.
The tribunal must receive the application before the start date your landlord
has given in question 4.6. If you refer the proposed new rent to the tribunal,
tell your landlord or they may otherwise assume you agree with the new rent.
The tribunal can consider other factors like the condition of the property
when deciding what the rent for your home should be.
The tribunal will decide what rent the landlord could reasonably expect if
the property were let on the open market on the same terms. The amount
the tribunal decides might be higher or lower than the rent your landlord has
proposed. However, you will not be required to pay more than the rent the
landlord first proposed in question 4.5. You do not have to pay the new
rent amount until the tribunal has made its decision.
You might find it helpful to check similar properties in your area to get an
idea of the market rate.

-- 6 of 9 --

Page 7
Form 4A Landlord's notice proposing a new rent for assured tenancies in the private rented sector (05.26)
5.3 If you have any questions about this notice or are worried you might
not be able to pay your rent, you should speak with your landlord
and/or seek advice. These are places you can find advice:
• the Shelter website: www.shelter.org.uk
• a citizens advice, housing advice centre, or law centre
• a legal representative - you can find a solicitor at:
https://solicitors.lawsociety.org.uk/
If you're worried about becoming homeless, you should contact
your local authority for support.
Note A: When the proposed new rent can start
A1. The date in question 4.6 of this notice must meet the three
requirements below. These requirements are set out in section
13(2) of the Housing Act 1988, as amended by the Regulatory
Reform (Assured Periodic Tenancies) (Rent Increases) Order 2003
and the Renters' Rights Act 2025.
A2. First requirement: in all cases, this notice must be served at least
two months before the new rent can start.
A3. Second requirement: The first rent increase cannot start until
52 weeks have passed since the tenancy began. For assured
agricultural occupancies, this rule is different, and you should use
Form 5 in the social rented sector or Form 5A in the private rented
sector.
In most cases, any further rent increase must be at least 52 weeks
after the previous increase. However, the new rent date cannot
be more than 6 days before the anniversary of the date given in
question 4.4. If it would be, the landlord must wait an extra week
(53 weeks in total) before the increase can start.
This rule prevents rent increase dates from drifting earlier each
year, because 52 weeks is slightly less than a calendar year.
It ensures that rent increases happen on a consistent annual
cycle, protecting tenants from increasingly early rent demands.
For example, for a weekly tenancy, the landlord could choose a
fixed date such as the first Monday in April each year. This rule,
introduced on 11th February 2003, is the reason for question 4.4.
A4. Third requirement: in all cases, the new rent must start at the
beginning of a tenancy period. First example: if a monthly tenancy
starts on the 20th of April, the new rent must start on the 20th day of
the month when the increase begins. Second example: if a weekly
tenancy started on a Monday, the new rent must begin on a Monday.

-- 7 of 9 --

Page 8
Form 4A Landlord's notice proposing a new rent for assured tenancies in the private rented sector (05.26)
Note B: Guidance on charges included in the rent
B1. In the second and third columns of the table in question 4.7, write
either 'nil' or the amount of the proposed charge (which may be
the same as now). Only include bills or charges if they are included
within the rent and the tenant does not pay these directly to a third
party, or to the landlord in addition to rent. Only include service
charges where the tenant has agreed in the tenancy agreement to
pay a fixed amount.
Do not include any variable service charges (within the meaning of
section 18 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985) that change based
on costs.

-- 8 of 9 --

Page 9
Form 4A Landlord's notice proposing a new rent for assured tenancies in the private rented sector (05.26)
Extra sheets
Include the number of the section and question which is being continued.
Signature If necessary, continue on a
separate sheet, remembering
to sign and date it.
Date
Day Month Year

-- 9 of 9 --