N215 - Certificate of service (02.26) ©Crown copyright 2026
Page 1
N215
Certificate of service
Name of court
Claim number
Name of claimant (including any reference)
Name of defendant (including any reference)
1. On what day did you serve?
Day Month Year
2. The date of service is
Day Month Year
3. What documents did you serve?
4. On whom did you serve?
Note 3: Attach copies of
the documents you have not
already filed with the court.
Note 4: If appropriate
include their position, such
as partner or director.
Note 2: See page 5 for
calculating the deemed
date of service.

-- 1 of 5 --

Page 2
N215 - Certificate of service (02.26)
5. How did you serve the documents? (tick the appropriate box)
by first class post or other service which provides for delivery
on the next business day
by delivering to or leaving at a permitted place
by personally handing it to or leaving it with
Name of person
Time left, where document is other than a claim form
by other means permitted by the court (please specify)
by Document Exchange
by fax machine
Time sent, where document is other than a claim form
by other electronic means (please specify)
Time send, where document is other than a claim form
6. Give the address where service effected, include fax or DX number,
e-mail address or other electronic identification.
First line of address
Second line of address
Town or city
County (optional)
Postcode
Fax machine: you may want
to enclose a copy of the
transmission sheet.

-- 2 of 5 --

Page 3
N215 - Certificate of service (02.26)
DX number
Fax number
Email address
Other electronic identification
Being the
claimant’s
defendant’s
solicitor’s
litigation friend
Location
usual residence
last known residence
place of business
principal place of business
last known place of business
last known principal place of business
principal office of the partnership
principal office of the corporation
principal office of the company
place of business of the partnership/company/corporation
within the jurisdiction with a connection to claim
other (please specify)

-- 3 of 5 --

Page 4
N215 - Certificate of service (02.26)
Statement of truth
I understand that proceedings for contempt of court may be
brought against a person who makes, or causes to be made, a
false statement in a document verified by a statement of truth
without an honest belief in its truth.
I believe that the facts stated in this section and any
continuation sheets are true.
Signature
Claimant
Defendant
Litigation friend
(where judgment creditor is a child or a protected party)
Claimant’s legal representative (as defined by CPR 2.3(1))
Defendant’s legal representative (as defined by CPR 2.3(1))
Date
Day Month Year
Full name
Name of legal representative’s firm
If signing on behalf of firm or company give position or office held

-- 4 of 5 --

Page 5
N215 - Certificate of service (02.26)
Rules relating to the service of documents are contained in Part 6 of the
Civil Procedure Rules (www.justice.gov.uk) and you should refer to the
rules for information.
Calculation of deemed day of service of a claim
A claim form served within the UK in accordance with Part 6 of the Civil
Procedure rules is deemed to be served on the second business day after
the claimant has completed the steps required by CPR 7.5(1).
Calculation of the deemed day of service of documents other than
the claim form (CPR 6.26)
Method of service Deemed day of service
First class post or other service
which provides for delivery on
the next business day
The second day after it was posted, left with, delivered to or
collected by the relevant service provider provided that day is a
business day; or if not, the next business day after that day.
Document exchange
The second day after it was left with, delivered to or collected by
the relevant service provider provided that day is a business day; or
if not, the next business day after that day.
Delivering the document to
or leaving it at a permitted
address
If it is delivered to or left at the permitted address on a business
day before 4.30pm, on that day; or in any other case, on the next
business day after that day.
Fax
If the transmission of the fax is completed on a business day before
4.30pm, on that day; or in any other case, on the next business day
after the day on which it was transmitted.
Other electronic method
If the email or other electronic transmission is sent on a business
day before 4.30pm, on that day; or in any other case, on the next
business day after the day on which it was sent.
Personal service
If the document is served personally before 4.30pm on a business
day, it is served on that day; or in any other case, on the next
business day after that day.
In this context ‘business day’ means any day except Saturday, Sunday or
a bank holiday; (under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 in the
part of the UK where service is to take place) includes Good Friday and
Christmas Day.

-- 5 of 5 --