Particulars of claim for
possession
(rented residential premises)
Name of court Claim No.
Name of Claimant
Name of Defendant
1. The claimant has a right to possession of:
2. To the best of the claimant’s knowledge the following persons are in possession of the property:
About the tenancy
3. (a) The premises are let to the defendant(s) under a(n)
tenancy which began on .
(b) The current rent is £ and is payable each (week) (fortnight) (month).
(other )
(c) Any unpaid rent or charge for use and occupation should be calculated at £ per day.
4. The reason the claimant is asking for possession is:
(a) because the defendant has not paid the rent due under the terms of the tenancy agreement.
(Details are set out below)(Details are shown on the attached rent statement)
(b) because the defendant has failed to comply with other terms of the tenancy.
Details are set out below.
(c) because: (including any (other) statutory grounds)
N119 Particulars of claim for possession (rented residential premises) (10.20) © Crown copyright 2020

-- 1 of 5 --

5. The following steps have already been taken to recover any arrears:
) was served on the defendant
on 20 .
6. The appropriate (notice to quit) (notice of breach of lease) (notice seeking possession) (notice
seeking a demotion order) (other
About the defendant
7. The following information is known about the defendant’s circumstances:
About the claimant
8. The claimant is asking the court to take the following financial or other information into account
when making its decision whether or not to grant an order for possession:
Forfeiture
(a) There is no underlessee or mortgagee entitled to claim relief against forfeiture. 9.
or (b) of
is entitled to claim relief against forfeiture as underlessee or mortgagee.

-- 2 of 5 --

What the court is being asked to do:
10. The claimant asks the court to order that the defendant(s):
(a) give the claimant possession of the premises;
(b) pay the unpaid rent and any charge for use and occupation up to the date an order is made;
(c) pay rent and any charge for use and occupation from the date of the order until the claimant
recovers possession of the property;
(d) pay the claimant’s costs of making this claim.
11. In the alternative to possession, is the claimant asking the court to make a demotion order or an
order suspending the right to buy?
Yes No
Demotion/Suspension claim
This section must be completed if the claim includes a claim for demotion of tenancy or suspension
order in the alternative to possession
12. The (demotion) (suspension) claim is made under:
section 82A(2) of the Housing Act 1985
section 6A(2) of the Housing Act 1988
section 121A of the Housing Act 1985
13. The claimant is a:
local authority housing action trust
registered social landlord
or a private registered
provider of social housing
other please specify (suspension claims only)
(Demotion claims only)
14. Has the claimant served on the tenant a statement of express terms of the tenancy which are to
apply to the demoted tenancy?
Yes No
If Yes, please give details:

-- 3 of 5 --

15. delete as appropriate (demotion of tenancy) (and) (an order suspending the
right to buy) because: State details of the conduct alleged and any other matters relied upon.
The claimant is claiming

-- 4 of 5 --

Statement of Truth
I understand that proceedings for contempt of court may be
brought against anyone who makes, or causes to be made, a false
statement in a document verified by a statement of truth without
an honest belief in its truth.
I believe that the facts stated in these particulars of claim are
true.
The Claimant believes that the facts stated in these particulars
of claim are true. I am authorised by the claimant to sign this
statement.
Signature
Claimant
Litigation friend (where claimant is a child or a patient)
Claimant’s legal representative (as defined by CPR 2.3(1))
Date
Day Month Year
Full name
Name of claimant’s legal representative’s firm
If signing on behalf of firm or company give position or office held
Find out how HM Courts and Tribunals Service uses personal information you give them when you fill in a
form: https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/hm-courts-and-tribunals-service/about/personal-
information-charter

-- 5 of 5 --